I'm going to create a calculateDamage function first, so I'll simply name it calculateDamage here
and this shall be a function which expects two arguments, the minimum and the maximum damage we want to
have as borders for this random number. Here I then want to return this function here where I do calculate
my damage,
I want to return this using the maximum and minimum I'm passing to this function here. With that,
I can remove that and simply say damage equals this.calculateDamage and pass 3 and 10, the minimum
and the maximum, much easier. I can now do the same for the monster here where I also can remove all of
that and simply reduce the player health by this.calculateDamage
and now 5 and 12, that would be a possibility, how we can write this here
too to make this code even shorter. So with that, I have refactored my damage calculation,
now I want to check if I won.
So here I will add a new function which I'll name checkWin, this will be a function where I want to execute
the code checking if we lost or won,
so what I do here is I copy my code from up here if the monster health is smaller than 0, in which
case I don't only want to throw an alert let's say but I want to ask the user if he wants to start a
new game.
So I'll show the confirm dialogue and I want to check the result of the dialogue by running if
confirm,
confirm again is a built in function offered by javascript giving us this yes or no dialogue which we
can click then
and here I'll show you won, new game, in which case if this is true so the user clicked yes, I want to
call this.startGame,
otherwise if the user did not call this or did not want to start a new game, I only set game is running
to false
but we don't start a new game.
I always want to return here because I also have an else block here, specifically an else if block because
here I want to check if the player health is smaller or equal to 0,
not the monster health,
in which case we lost.
So I'll copy the code from above,
you lost, new game and then again, this.startGame
and I guess you could refactor this even more
but I want to keep things easy to read and to understand what's happening here.
Now here in this case, I want to return true actually, the same up here and only if we satisfy no condition
down here,
I want to return false.
Why do I want to return a boolean here?
Because the place where I execute checkWin up here,
here I need to check if we should continue in this function or not,
so I'll check if this.checkWin returns true which is always the case if we either lost or won.
So if we return true here, I know I don't want to continue the code execution here because the game is
over,
so I don't want to deal damage again,
we instead either start a new game or did nothing.
So here if we have a return true,
I know I have to return from this function so that we don't execute the code anymore.
At the end of the function, I again will have to check if we won but here, I can only say this.checkWin
because there is no code getting executed after this function,
so no need to return in case we lost or won because nothing's happening
after calling this function. With this in place, let's save this, reload and see if this still works, I click
attack until we oh this is a close one but until we lost, I guess, you won,
yeah we were really really lucky.
I can now click okay, let's try it again,
you lost,
okay
and then cancel so we get one dialog too much
and this of course is from this check here which I also have to remove.
So with this, our code here is much more readable and we refactored it to also use it in our other
functions which are to follow here.
With that we're able to attack,
now it's also time to implement our special attacks and well heal and so on to really make this game
a bit more flexible and give us a higher chance of winning.